Cape Town – Property owners who are dependent on pensions or social grants for their livelihood, including those with special needs, and who earn a household income of up to R17 500 may qualify for rates discounts.   It is an increase of R2 500 in the monthly household income threshold for rates assistance. The rebates for all income bands between R4 500 and R17 500 per month were also adjusted upwards, the City of Cape Town said in a statement on Tuesday. The new GV 2018 was implemented on 1 July, 2019 after the previous three-year GV cycle ended in June 2019. Qualifying customers have less than a week left to apply via either the email address Indigent.relief@capetown.gov.za or at the nearest walk-in centre. 'With the deadline rapidly approaching, we encourage qualifying customers to apply as soon as possible and not to lose out on the assistance that is on offer. "In these challenging economic times, every bit of financial relief can go a long way to assist families and their budgets. We are here to help where we can. 'It used to be a requirement that pensioners go through this application process every year. To reduce the burden on pensioners, we managed to change the reapplication process so that applicants need only submit their paperwork every three years. "We are trying our best to make the process as painless as possible,’ said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Finance, Ian Neilson. In addition, indigent property owners who earn up to R6 000 a month, regardless of their age, are also encouraged to apply for indigent benefits that include rates rebates. Pensioners and social grant beneficiaries Please include with your application: Indigent support STEP 1: Download the Application for Indigent Support form at http://www.capetown.gov.za/City-Connect/Apply/Financial-relief-and-rebates/Individuals/Apply-for-indigent-rates-relief or send an email to Indigent.relief@capetown.gov.za or collect one from your nearest municipal office. Renewal applications have been posted to existing rates rebate and indigent grant recipients. STEP 2: Include all relevant documentation with the application. STEP 3: Submit the completed form to any municipal Revenue walk-in office or post the documents to Director Revenue, City of Cape Town, PO Box 655, Cape Town, 8000. When posting a form, a certified copy of your ID or other proof of identification needs to be included. 