Last night various neighbourhood watch groups gathered to host a “power patrol” in honour of Ignatius van Rooyen, 34, who was killed in Freedom Way, Montague Gardens, on Friday. He was described as having a passion for protecting and serving his community. A tearful Quentin van Rooyen, Ignatius’s brother, said: “I am at a lost for words. We didn’t expect to lose him this young. ‘‘He was close to me and my sister, we were a very close-knit family.” Milnerton Ridge Residents’ Association chairperson Jacqui Pember said Van Rooyen had been “at the wrong place at the wrong time”. Pember said Van Rooyen had been in Montague Gardens as he “was just that kind of guy who would go and have a look to see if all was well”. “We were thrilled as he was busy going through his SAPS reservist programme and was able to teach us the right and wrong way to do things. ‘‘He was always advising us on being safe and making himself available whenever there was a need. We still have so much we could have learned from this man. ‘‘A void has been opened in our neighbourhood and his shoes will be near impossible to fill. “He was simply at the wrong place at the wrong time and was killed by bullets shot by cowards,” Pember said. “The shooting occurred at about 6.45pm at Freedom Way, Montague Gardens, Milnerton. According to reports, police attended to the crime scene at the address, and found a body of a 34-year-old man with a gunshot wound to his chest. The victim died on the scene due to his injuries,” Rwexana said. Ward councillor Mlulami Ngeyi said it was sad to see that crime affected someone trying to make a difference. “Crime is definitely a problem, and it targets anybody. We never know when criminals will strike and who they will strike,” Ngeyi said. A power patrol was hosted in memory of Van Rooyen last night, during which various neighbourhood watch groups came together to patrol. It was organised by the Milnerton Ridge Neighbourhood Watch. Pember said Van Rooyen joined the group in September 2017. “There’s such a small group of us who volunteer and didn’t expect something like this to happen to the most compassionate and fair person in the watch. “Honestly the most helpful person. He assisted many street people out of the goodness of his heart, not because he had to,” Pember said. Other neighbourhood watches like the Summer Greens Neighbourhood Watch and the Brooklyn Neighbourhood Watch, also shared messages of condolences after hearing of Van Rooyen’s murder. Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz has condemned the attack and called on the public to come forward if they had information. Anyone with information may contact CrimeStop anonymously on 08600 10111 or sms Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times