Cape Town – Water is surging into Cape Town's main supply dam, the Theewaterskloof dam, from Riviersonderend and the Breede River, and the downpour at the weekend will keep impacting the storage levels of dams across the Western Cape from various catchment areas. The storage capacity of dams supplying the Cape Town metropole has breached the 50% mark thanks to the heavy rains. It now stands at 50.2%, compared to 48.7% last week and 42.2% at the same time last year. Water is also surging into the second biggest dam in Cape Town, Voelvlei, which is between Wellington and Tulbagh, thanks to the intense cold front at the weekend. Cape Town’s collective water consumption for the past week dropped by 8 million litres per day to 534 million litres per day – last week consumption was at 542 m/l per day. "We are thrilled to see the dam levels steadily increasing for the third week in a row. Additionally, with the drop in the daily consumption level, our dams are slowly but surely on the road to recovery. "We remain optimistic that this is going to be the trend in the coming winter months," said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Water and Sanitation, Xanthea Limberg. "Dam levels are in a better position when compared to the same period in previous years, but we encourage residents to continue using water wisely. The City would like to thank the water warriors who continue to save this precious resource."     The dams in the Western Cape continue to show a slight increase in levels. Currently, the average level for dams across the province stands at 37% (2018: 36.3%). Minister of Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning Anton Bredell said the weekend’s rainfall will continue to have an impact over the coming weeks as water continues to flow to the dams from catchment areas.     “Several reports of damage and localised flooding was reported in the province over the past weekend, including a large rockfall on the Franschhoek Pass, but overall we got off relatively lightly. "We are expecting further cold and wet weather in the days and weeks to come and urge the public to take precautions where possible.” 