Mayor Colan Sylvester disclosed the embattled municipality’s financial state following the council’s approval of the Integrated Development Plan for the next financial year starting next month and the multi-year budget for the 2019-2022 financial years. “This budget was again drafted under challenging circumstances, with the South African economy not getting out of the blocks over the last four years causing a knock-on effect to the provincial district as well as the Oudtshoorn local economy,” Sylvester said. Years of neglect in infrastructure maintenance, refurbishment and renewals had led to a bottleneck of infrastructure breakdown that required additional financial resources to address, he added. “The municipality has, however, made great strides in its financial recovery from a position of near bankruptcy during the administration, to one where we are in a position to start focusing economic resources towards service delivery, infrastructure refurbishment and maintenance instead of using available resources to pay off overdue debt,” Sylvester said. Trade creditors had decreased from more than R90m in November 2015 to a current amount of R4.5m, Sylvester said, while debt collection had improved from 86% in early 2016 to above 96% for the year to date. Although vastly improved, it still represented an under collection of about R14m for the current financial year, said Sylvester. The cash flow position, although significantly improved, remained less than adequate when compared to the liquidity requirements set in the approved long-term financial plan of R82.2m of unencumbered cash at hand. Total funded capital projects for the 2019/2020 financial year amount to R89.47m. Critical projects include water augmentation and securing sustainable water sources through the connection of the Blossoms Wellfield. The capital budget is funded mainly by means of grants from national and provincial government in the amount of R57.48m. The remainder will be financed from own revenue generated, amounting to R14m, and for the first time in more than four years borrowing as a funding option is proposed to fund an amount of R18m for major infrastructure refurbishments and replacement. The operating expenditure budget for the 2019/2020 financial year amounts to R688 652 056, which represents an increase of R14 065 631 or 2.09% over the fourth revised budget. Electricity is up by 13.07% in accordance with the National Energy Regulator guideline increase, water up between 7.5% and 12% depending on consumption, sewerage up by 6.5% and refuse charges up by 10.50% as previously determined to move towards cost recovery of the service. About R3.8m has been set aside for social and developmental programmes, which include youth, rural and sports development, tourism and marketing, as well as disabled persons and women as focus areas. Cape Times