Cape Town – A man who tried to start a veld fire on Table Mountain on Sunday has been arrested on arson charges after he was caught red-handed by Law Enforcement officers. Law Enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason says shortly after 3pm officers at the Cape Town base received a call for help at Van Riebeeck Park. “The City Bowl Armed Response were dealing with a riotous male who was throwing stones at members of the public as well as their officers in Van Riebeeck Park,” says Dyason. “On arrival, officers found the suspect setting fire to the mountainside. “A lighter was used to set tinder alight, some other sticks were brought together to build the fire. Damage was caused to bush and grass and approximately 12 square metres burnt.” Dyason says the 33-year-old man was arrested while officers managed to obtain a garden hose from a neighbouring house and began extinguishing the fire. “The City of Cape Town’s Fire & Rescue team arrived in under 10 minutes to assist the officers, as well as Table Mountain National Parks Fire Teams.” He explains officers believed the 33-year-old man was intoxicated. When they arrived at Cape Town Central police station, they discovered he had been arrested for arson before. “Officers later found out that this is the second fire the suspect has been arrested for this year, the first one at the end of January 2019,” adds Dyason. “When the officer took the suspect down to the cells, another police officer who was busy with an arrest confirmed he had also arrested the man in January for another fire. “A neighbourhood watch member who responded to the fire also identified him. The suspect was also involved in an assault case of a domestic worker in the Vredehoek area where a case was opened.” Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed the incident and says the man appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Monday. The incident comes just two months after a huge veld fire swept over Signal Hill. The blaze, which was suspected to be started by people living on the mountain, saw a large area destroyed on 27 January. At the time, officials confirmed they were tackling three separate fires which burnt simultaneously on the mountain slopes. Daily Voice