“While the law must seek to deal with those implicated to the full extent possible, I publicly request each and every person serving in the Cabinet, the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces to make oath and solemnly swear before the Chief Justice that he/ she never received any monetary or material favour from anyone during his/her period of office or membership of the legislatures.” MPLs, mayco members and councillors should be subjected to a similar public exercise. A separate process should be undertaken for all senior officials. It may very well be that lurking on the election lists of the ANC are many highly compromised individuals, hoping not to be unmasked. Their election will be a disaster because they will do everything possible to white ant efforts to bring political criminals to book. Every known Zuma supporter should be thoroughly screened. They are no less guilty than Zuma, in allowing the capture of the state to take place to the extent it that it did. Every MP or minister who stood up in Parliament to defend Zuma passionately, aggressively and unashamedly in respect of each of the eight motions of no confidence that were moved against Zuma, as can be easily ascertained by perusing Hansard, should do the honourable thing and stand down. As a Zuma acolyte and colluder, there should be no place for such a person in politics. The high-level review panel report on the activities of the State Security Agency (SSA) has brought to the fore the reckless and lawless abuse of taxpayers’ money by appointees of Zuma to the SSA. The financial misconduct at the SSA is horrendous. We should be outraged by the confirmation of a ministerial aide that he was asked, from time to time, to pass parcels containing cash to the minister. President, please speak out and initiate visible political action to deal with those who surround you and have brought the ANC and the government into disrepute. Do not use the excuse of waiting for the law to take its course. Farook Cassim Century View Cape Times