“I had been accepted to study actuarial science at every university in the country, but people are my passion, and I was holding out for that acceptance letter that I had been praying for - the opportunity to solve problems and change lives that accompanies the title of ‘doctor’. “Finally it arrived: I had been accepted to study dentistry at UWC and I grabbed it with both hands. “Every afternoon, I would sit at my desk and absorb the information that we had learnt that day, not allowing a single moment to pass in which I was not doing my best. "Shortly into the first semester, I was awarded a full bursary from the Eastern Cape Department of Health. This motivated me even more and provided confirmation that everything was happening to the good of God’s plan.” Being away from home was difficult, especially when she was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis, an autoimmune condition, in her first year. “When your body becomes your enemy, the battle is very difficult to fight, and taking chemotherapeutic medication and spending a week in hospital every few months can take its toll. Despite the pain and discomfort, I always gave my patients the best treatment that I could.” Pauls said as the years went on, Cape Town became her new “home”. The workload became more demanding and the stress took its toll on her health. “Some days were more challenging than others, but if you cannot motivate yourself to get out of bed each morning, even when you are sick and weak, no one else will. “Added to this was the uncertainty of when I would receive meal vouchers from my bursary. “Learning to budget when you cannot afford groceries becomes a challenge in itself. Writing semester tests every Tuesday and Saturday meant that I also needed to ‘budget’ my time, and find time for God.” The day arrived when the hard work, blood (literally), sweat and tears of five years of studying culminated in being recognised as the top dentistry student, and also being awarded SA Dental Association medals for achievement in different disciplines and the gold medal for academic excellence. “Finally I graduated with my degree in dental surgery summa cum laude. “Bursting with pride, I was honoured to share my day and my success with my parents from Port Elizabeth. “With the excitement of graduation also comes the melancholy of a chapter closing and another one opening. The next page in my book will be written in Port Elizabeth as I start my career as a community service dentist in Kwazakhele.”