The 18-year-old was awarded the bursary by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica) after achieving seven distinctions in last year’s National Senior Certificate exams. He passed five subjects with 90% and more. His proud school in Strand named a science and maths laboratory after Ngewu during a special ceremony. Khanyolwethu Secondary principal Eric Titipana said they were celebrating Ngewu because “this is the first time a learner of this school achieved 90% in physical science”. “While some have achieved distinctions by getting 80% in the past, he showed great consistency in all his subjects,” said Titipana. Ngewu said he was ecstatic and surprised by what the school did for him, and his legacy would live forever at the school. He encouraged this year’s Grade 12 class to work hard and not focus on their circumstances and environment. Ngewu has been accepted at UCT and will be studying a BCom financial accounting. Another example of excellence recognised by Saica was Ntokozo Genu from Zola Senior Secondary School in Khayelitsha. Genu, from Qumbu in the Eastern Cape, obtained a bachelor’s pass in last year’s National Senior Certificate exams despite having no relatives in Cape Town and relying on the charity of his school and strangers to help him survive day-to-day life. He also received a special ministerial award for beating the odds in the face of these challenges. Genu will further his studies at the University of the Western Cape and study a BCom economics. Saica senior executive for national projects Robert Zwane said: “These learners’ achievements come as no surprise as both illustrated their aptitude for maths and accounting during their matric year when they participated in one of academic interventions Saica runs in the Western Cape every year. “This year we were extremely proud to discover that the minister honoured Simphiwe and Ntokozo for their outstanding performance in the matric exams. We’re delighted that both learners will be pursuing their love for finance at a tertiary level.” Cape Times