Dempster will brave the Atlantic Ocean and row solo in the 2019 Talisker Whiskey Atlantic 3000 mile Challenge in December in the hope of breaking the stigma attached to people who have suffered from mental health issues. He also aims to speak out about the mental health struggles that he has faced over the past three years, while hoping to inspire other South Africans to seek help for their own mental health issues. “The Watering the Mind Campaign is a chance for me to be open with others about my struggles. By rowing across the Atlantic I hope to show others that struggling with your mental health does not mean you’re a weak person, and that great things can still be achieved. "Partnering with South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) allows me to combine my story and their efforts in order to change the lives of as many South Africans as possible,” Dempster said. He said that over the years his life seemed to repeat the same cycle of depression and anxiety. For 2019 Dempster decided to forestall any more attempts at pursuing his degree and its associated effects on his mental health, while simultaneously working in a job in the technology sector and pursuing his campaign to enter the oceans rowing race. He has partnered with Sadag and their “Suicide Shouldn’t Be a Secret” programme which aims to lower teenage suicide rates by interacting with and educating rural high school learners. Suicide is the third highest cause of death among South African teenagers, accounting for a shocking 9.5% of all teenage deaths, according to Sadag. Board chairperson and psychiatrist Dr Frans Korb said: “Your support and unbelievable contribution towards those in dire need of mental health care is remarkable. You are truly an inspiration to all.” The race begins in early December, with up to 30 teams participating. The race brings together teams from across the globe. They gather in the race village San Sebastian in La Gomera, Canary Islands. To support the Watering the Mind campaign visit www.wateringthemind.org or https://www.backabuddy.co.za/watering-the-mind