Cape Town – The Western Cape Department of Local Government has once again appealed to municipalities to contact them directly when water assistance is needed. This after the Kannaland municipality in the Little Karoo recently requested emergency help from Gift of the Givers to assist more than 14 000 people with drinking water. They ended up receiving 50 thousand litres of water from the humanitarian organisation. Gift of the Givers had first received a call from Zoar residents last week asking for drinking water, followed by a formal request by the municipality. Ministerial spokesperson James Brent-Styan said, however, there are protocols to follow and they have teams that can deal with such issues in a quick and co-ordinated manner, the SABC reported. Gift of the Givers also urgently delivery of bottled water to crisis-hit Laingsburg and Beaufort West in the last two weeks. The organisation expected more municipalities to call as many of the outlying Western Cape areas have been water- distressed for several weeks now, said Imtiaz Sooliman, the founder, director and chairman of Gift of the Givers. “Gift of the Givers brought in 300 containers of bottled water by ship and road to Cape Town from January, at our cost, to assist the citizens of the whole of the Western Cape. "This water was sponsored by South Africans directly to Gift of the Givers. We have responded to various water crises in the Western Cape throughout 2018,” Sooliman said this week. “Gift of the Givers has already packed trucks with bottled water to deliver this coming week to the areas mentioned in the letter. "Many corporates have once again asked us to collect tons of bottled water from next week to respond to the various severely drought-affected areas in the Western Cape.” Signed by municipal manager Reynold Stevens, the letter appealed for assistance, particularly for Calitzdorp and Zoar. “Kannaland municipality is currently facing tremendous challenges regarding the provision of drinking water due to the drought, and extreme, dry weather conditions,” the letter read. “The communities of Calitzdorp and Zoar (are) at this stage affected by this situation, due to the drop in dam levels.” The municipality appealed for assistance with drinking water for 3 000 households, about 14 205 people. Mayoral spokesperson Ian Avontuur said the letter was intended to get all stakeholders on board. “We are facing an unforeseen crisis,” he said, adding that Stevens had assured him that everything was under control and the situation was being monitored.