The municipality said two houses were destroyed in the fire which had raged uncontrollably in Hartenbos Heuwels. “Firefighters from Mossel Bay are working hard to get the fire under control. The crew is being assisted by George Municipality and Garden Route District Municipality, as well as aerial support and assistance from Working on Fire and Mossel Bay Helicopters. "Learners from Sonskynvallei are being accommodated at the Hartenbos Primary’s School’s afterschool care for obvious safety reasons,” the municipality said. In Wupperthal in the Cederberg, residents who lost their identity documents in a devastating fire were yesterday bused to the nearest Home Affairs office and personally helped by Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Fatima Chohan. As restoration work continued about 60 residents applied for various documents in Vredendal. Chohan said the residents who were bused had been too traumatised to take up help previously offered by the department. “Their houses had burnt down and it was too soon for them to attempt to apply for new documents as their priority had been finding a place to stay,” Chohan said. About 200 people were left destitute on New Year’s Eve when a fire caused large-scale devastation, including razing 53 of 113 homes in the mission station, and the school hostel. Wilfred Solomons Johannes, the spokesperson for Wupperthal Fire Disaster and the Moravian Church of Southern Africa, said insurers assessed the damaged church buildings and the preliminary estimated costs were about R20 million. However, that figure was expected to grow. They have appealed to businesses, organisations, philanthropists and donors to assist and save the historic town Wupperthal Morawiese Sending Kerk minister Jasmin Redcliffe said residents appreciated all the assistance they had received and over the past few weeks various departments had been to the area to assist. What they needed now was building material to rebuild residents’ homes, Redcliffe said. “Engineers and architects have been here, as people need their homes back. Things are a lot better than they were on December 31, and we are grateful for the help we have received,” Redcliffe said. Solomons Johannes said financial support could be made to: Bank: Standard Bank Account Name: Moravian Church in SA Account Type: Cheque Account Account No: 072906189 Branch: Kenilworth Centre Branch Code: 026209 Reference: Wupperthal Fire International SWIFT Code: SBZAZAJJ