“It is sad and tragic, but the reality is that some adults who are parents and teachers should not be allowed near a child,” said Lubowski. “They treat a child like a little adult. A child between birth and 10 years old has no life experience, has no education and has not developed abstract thinking. “Parents need training to acquire the appropriate parenting skills to raise and educate a child. “It’s for this reason that I have started the South African Parent Academy - a school for parents. “Whether you are a parent of a child between the ages of birth and 10 years, or whether you are planning to become a parent, it is vital you receive training and support.” She said scientific evidence shows a parent and a teacher significantly impacts a child’s identity and destiny. Lubowski said that in her earlier interactions with various schools, through the Anton Lubowski Education Trust, which was founded in 2007 and which initiated the academy, she had observed how many teachers lacked the necessary skills to work effectively with pupils. Another reason for starting the academy had been that she had also observed that many parents couldn’t stay calm, she said. “And the moment somebody does that, they have basically lost the respect and trust of the child, who then develop symptoms of anxiety, depression and rage. “The reason parents do not stay calm is because they simply do not know what to do.” The academy runs for three and a half hours on Saturdays and participating parents become members. Parents pay an annual fee of R240, and completion of the course depends on how quickly they latched on to and understood the concepts they were taught. Membership benefits include receiving academy newsletters, encouragement, expert counselling and group-based discussions. The academy also works with Dr Ken Resnick of Smart Choice Parenting. He had just completed his doctorate about his Parent Programme, said Lubowski. The academy will host Resnick once a month to present his workshop in Cape Town, teaching the skills to parents.