The suspects, aged between 18 and 38, were arrested on charges of possession of presumed stolen property, possession of dangerous weapons and vehicle-breaking implements. On Saturday at about 8.15am, officers noticed three males acting suspiciously in Rondebosch, and stopped and searched them. Officers were doing crime prevention along the railway line in Rondebosch, a cable theft hot spot. Police spokesperson Hein Hendricks said: “The suspects were found in possession of two hacksaws and a large amount of copper cable. Two suspects aged 18 and 38 were detained.” Hendricks said the 38-year-old was also positively linked to a case at Lansdowne police station of defeating the course of justice, and a housebreaking and theft case at Claremont police station. Rondebosch police stopped and searched two suspicious males in a robbery hot spot along the Liesbeek River Trail at 1pm on Saturday. Hendricks said that both were found in possession of knives and vehicle-breaking implements. “The suspects, two males, aged 30 and 37, were arrested and detained. During investigations it was discovered that both suspects had given false names at the time of their arrest. “The 30-year-old had given the other suspect’s name, and the 37-year- old had made up another name. The two will also be charged with defeating the course of justice,” said Hendricks. He said the 30-year-old was also positively linked to a Langa police station drunk-driving case. The investigation continues in identifying ownership of the confiscated items, and all five suspects will appear in the Wynberg Magistrate’s court once they have been charged. Meanwhile, the Fish Hoek Community Police Forum hailed the police for apprehending suspects on Monday night who were driving in a “suspicious vehicle” in Main Road. “The vehicle was searched and a bag containing jewellery, a Kruger rand and foreign currency to the value of R100000 was found in the vehicle. Investigations led to the recovery of more stolen items from a house in Glencairn Heights,” read a post. The forum announced another arrest that night of a male with presumed stolen property in Main Road.