The traditional celebration parade, more popularly known as the “Tweede Nuwe Jaar” parade, kicked off just before midday yesterday following days of excitement and anticipation, with revellers camping out days earlier in the CBD to get the best view. Authorities estimated crowds of between 55 000 and 60 000 in attendance. Minstrel troupes from across Cape Town performed between Keizersgracht Street in District Six and Rose Street in the Bo-Kaap, building on the long tradition and legacy of Tweede Nuwe Jaar which has been celebrated in the Cape for over 110 years. The organisers of the new-format Cape Town Street Parade have worked to build an inclusive carnival for everyone who participates in it. This year, spectators had the opportunity to buy golden circle tickets at R100 to get a better view of their favourite troupes marching by iconic landmarks such as the City centre, Castle of Good Hope and Grand Parade. Helen September said she had been attending the celebration for over 30 years. “This is the best event that we look forward to as a family. We come through days before and camp out as we wait. A lot in the event and the organising of it has changed, but we are always happy to be here. "For at least one day in the year you can celebrate your culture with people who appreciate it with you,” September said. Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association director Muneeb Gambeno said last year saw the best Tweede Nuwe Jaar celebration and organisers had built on the success of the previous event, as about 50 troupes were expected to march yesterday. For the second year, a special Tweede Nuwe Jaar theme song was created for the celebrations, and this year, the song, titled It’s a Cape Town thing, 'n Kaapse ding! is sung by local artist Shadley Schroeder. Schroeder performed the song on the Grand Parade yesterday. Mayoral council member for safety and security, and social services JP Smith said the City was proud to be one of the sponsors of the celebrations. “This is a key cultural event for all the residents of Cape Town, and the well-organised event that we saw last year made great strides in developing this into an iconic event that rivals some of the greatest street parades in the world. “The event draws a diversity of cultures from across the City. It is recognised globally as being synonymous with Cape Town, alongside Table Mountain,” Smith said.