Smith said the minstrel associations had continually squabbled over who should get the right to organise events. The City annually grants a permit to one of three existing minstrel associations that are funded to run events, including the Tweede Nuwe Jaar parade on January 2. When held last week, it attracted 60 000 spectators. The latter is a historical inner-city event that marks the day when the Cape’s slaves during the colonial period had a day off work to mark the New Year. “We have multiple minstrel boards. People of Cape Town are being let down by some board leaders,” said Smith. “The focus is not on putting on a multicultural traditional event. It’s about finances. We end up in court every year about finances.” The Cape Town Minstrel Carnival Association (CTMCA) last month dragged the City to the Western Cape High Court for the seventh time. The CTMCA argued that the City should not have granted a permit to the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA) to host minstrel events at the Athlone Stadium. CTMCA also wanted to co-host the Tweede Nuwe Jaar with the KKKA, which the City had given R2 2 million and additional resources to host the street parade. Smith said it would be better if the City hosted minstrel events, particularly the Tweede Nuwe Jaar street parade, which it wanted to grow into a bigger tourist attraction. “Maybe it is time for a legislative intervention to get it on the right track,” said Smith. “The state of Rio de Janeiro (in Brazil) wrote legislation and seized control of the carnival (in that city), ran it for a number of years and then handed it back to communities. “I would love to see us create a more attractive event and attract people internationally. We have a small audience and it could be so much more. I would like to see this grow to the extent of the Rio carnival.” Carnival organisers were this week criticised for immoral behaviour when photographs surfaced showing minstrels urinating on the Jameah mosque wall in Bo-Kaap. Imam Abdul Moutie Saban, the religious leader at the Lower Chiappini Street mosque for the past 40 years, said he would prefer it if the street parade were banned from the area. “This happens almost every year. It’s going from bad to worse. They can take the parade to another area. It doesn’t have to come near the mosques,” said Saban. Muneeb Gambeno, one of the KKKA directors, said they had ensured that 46 mobile toilets were placed in Bo-Kaap for spectators. He said the event had 200 toilets in total at a cost of at least R300 000. Gambeno said they were running the event adequately and there was no need for the City to take it away from community organisations. “We were told before that the City wants to take this event back. We are not okay with that. We would have a bureaucracy running a cultural event that belongs to the people,” he said. “If the City runs this event, they will appoint an agent to get suppliers. The question is, what happens at a lower level? Who will influence where clothes and uniforms are manufactured?” said Gambeno. “We make a conscious effort to empower people. This is our community’s culture and local people can access the opportunity to provide a service for the event. We need to give our people the benefit of participation in carnival.” CTMCA spokesperson Hilton Nyirenda said the City should look at what went wrong and then talk to different role players to fix the problem, instead of usurping minstrel events. “It’s not just about pulling an event together. There is a lot of history and culture involved in it. Taking it away from the minstrels won’t solve the problem,” he said. “The City should also ask to what extent it is engaging to build capacity and organisational skills. I would be against the idea that it should be taken away from the minstrels. “Minstrel leaders come from the ranks. It is only now that we have more professional people joining the organisations the City should ask what it has done to assist, support, empower and build capacity.” yazkamaldien@gmail.com. Cape Argus