About 500 delegates, including 17 ministers and deputy ministers of environment, finance, business, science and technology and development, are to participate in robust discussions on tools and strategies for shaping greener economies to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement. The gathering will put sustainability at the heart of economic policies and practices to advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Cabinet concurred, and approved in September 2017, the hosting of the Page conference by South Africa tomorrow and on Friday. South Africa joined the global programme in 2015, following identification of potential to enhance multilateralism and support for climate action. The 3rd Page ministerial conference, under the theme "Advancing Inclusive and Sustainable Economies", follows two successful conferences which were held in Dubai in 2014 and Berlin in 2017, respectively. South Africa is hosting this high-level conference on the heels of the successful Global Climate Conference, which adopted the Paris Agreement work programme setting out the rules of implementation. Among featured speakers are the director-general of the International Labour Organisation, Guy Ryder, and secretary-general of Amnesty International, Kumi Naidoo. The conference will kick off with a CNBC televised media debate on the topic of “What makes your country wealthy?” today. Through a series of parallel sessions with high-level speakers from South Africa and abroad, the conference will share the latest thinking and evidence on four thematic themes. These are: green finance, strategies and policies for a green economy, social and economic inclusion, and sustainable consumption and production and the circular economy. The Page programme aims to strengthen co-operation, co-ordination and capabilities required by South Africa to implement the transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient and pro-employment development path. The conference will provide an opportunity for member states to reinforce the commitment to transition to a green/sustainable economy and to sustain the momentum on deepening green economy principles in the heart of socio-economic and environmental planning frameworks.