Cape Town – More desperate Samora Machel backyard dwellers in Philippi were expected to erect shacks in the middle of an unused railway depot this week after 20 structures were built. Among those who have been there since earlier this month was 57-year-old Philip Zulu. Zulu said as backyarders they could no longer keep up with the ever-increasing rent. “When I heard people were moving here, I joined them out of desperation because I’m unemployed. Others moved because the rent is expensive and increases every year. “We are aware of the safety risks but we don't know where to turn to because the City hasn't made plans for Samora backyarders. So far we there haven't been eviction threats and hopefully there won’t be,” he said. The place doesn't have electricity, water and sanitation. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said their teams were investigating to establish what could be done to resolve the matter. “Illegal informal ingress in the rail reserve is a long-standing concern. This site is the old Philippi depot which is earmarked for modernisation. “The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa has previously successfully relocated households elsewhere in Khayelitsha. Experience has shown that such relocation is a multifunctional and protracted process. “It is reliant on engagement with community leaders and the provision of alternative serviced land. To that end, the ingress has been raised and discussed in various structures within the City,” Scott said. Human Settlements Mayco member Malusi Booi said: “To this end, the City has offered to assist with the dismantling and removal of the unoccupied structures due to the health and safety concerns that exist. “Although we understand the acute need for housing opportunities amid the great demand and space constraints that we are faced with due to our terrain and geographical position as a peninsula, we also must look at the health and safety aspects that could affect our residents. “Housing delivery must also continue to happen in a fair and structured way to ensure that there is no queue-jumping. We are doing our utmost as a City to improve the living conditions of our people.”