Cape Town - On Sunday it was revealed that the Station Deck above Cape Town Central train station, which services hundreds of thousands of commuters daily, will be closed as of Wednesday, January 16, 2019, for scheduled maintenance. The minibus-taxi facility also has a number of small businesses operating out of containers on the deck overlooking the Castle of Good Hope, Grand Parade, and the CBD. The City of Cape Town has set aside just R2 million for the upgrade. However, many Capetonians have shared their views on the upgrade and aside from hoping that it will improve the area, they also added in criticisms over the current state of the deck. Nabeelah Ismail: "Let's hope the revamp includes removing all the drug addicts lingering around the deck! No use revamping anything if there isn't enough money being pumped into the safety and security of commuters." Marlene Janet Richards: "Omw, more traffic congestion out of that area. I hope law enforcement is gonna patrol there 24/7. That Grand Parade is gonna be a mess!" Ashley Davids: "Hopefully it's made a safer environment." Kimmy Damons: "Ooooooh the chaos that will erupt in the City. Good luck navigating through the streets." Zali Ngxabi: "So what happens to all the foreign shops that run on the deck? Is that what the upgrade is for?" Shahieda Hattas: "It's about time... If you walk on the deck you need to cover your nose and mouth... The most unhygienic place to ever walk on...yuck." Anne-Marie Matthee: "Thank goodness, because that deck was looking horrible. Now we can only hope the taxis appreciate what is being done and drive better as well." Dani'yal Maneveld: "Only 2 million? What are they replacing? Sounds like someone is getting a cool 1.5 mil at least." Bradley Hendricks: Great news....no more "P*ss" smell" Ferdi Abrahams: "What about the poor druggies now? Where will they go?" Alphonso Bennett: "I hope the sh*t upgrade comes with traffic cops to hit the taxi a**hole over the head with a pole and take the taxi to the pound." ** To comment on this story, write to arglet@inl.co.za. Responses must include full names, addresses, and contact details (not for publication). Cape Argus