The four-year study, done on a shoestring budget by Exercise Science and Sports Medicine division Professor Alison September and co-researcher Dr Andrea Gibbon, focused on ligaments and tendons, which are commonly injured during occupational and sporting activities. September, the principal investigator on the project, said they thought it wouldn’t be possible to design the concept with such a small sum of money. “But we persevered and look where we are today. People also thought it was impossible to find a genetic component to a sporting injury, however, we’ve proved them wrong. “We looked at some of the important proteins involved in tendon and ligament regulation. “We looked at the genes that code for these proteins and then we explored the sequencing data to identify variants that could possibly be associated with this clinical condition,” she said The study entailed sequencing 20 individuals, 10 controls involving those who hadn’t suffered an injury, and 10 cases involving those who had suffered multiple Achilles tendon injuries. September and Gibbon wanted to explore the idea that specific changes in human genes could influence a person’s susceptibility to injury. This was based on the observation that certain people can run much of their lives without injury, while other younger individuals can suffer multiple chronic injuries. The researchers identified variations in the DNA code for a particular type of protein called Tenascin C, which is abundant in developing tendons, bone and cartilage, among other things. Variants of the Tenascin C gene were associated with risks of musculoskeletal soft tissue injuries, including Achilles tendinopathy and knee ligament injuries. They found that a specific code within the gene for Tenascin C increased risk of these injuries. “We know that this is such a multifactorial condition, but we are looking specifically at the genetics of these injuries, asking if these individuals have a genetic profile that is different. ‘‘If there is a pattern across their genome that may contribute to their predisposition,” Gibbon said. Cape Times