After years of hard work, pro skateboarder Jean-Marc Johannes, 28, from Penlyn Estate, has claimed his second victory for achieving 18 nollie heelflips in just 50 seconds. His passion for skateboarding started 18 years ago when he tried out various sports at school, but failed to make any teams. “I tried everything and I did not make it. It was very demotivating but then I saw children on skateboards and tried it out,” he says. “I fell the first time but got back on and enjoyed the freedom of a sport with almost no rules. Professionally “When I was 11, I went to watch a competition in Claremont and as a joke, someone signed me up and I ended up winning the tournament.” Jean-Marc has been competing professionally ever since and at just 15 years old, he was rated among the top 10 skateboarders in South Africa. A nollie heelfip is a trick where the skateboarder flips the board entirely using their less dominant foot and lands back on the board with both feet. “It’s like writing with your left hand when you are right-handed. Initially I struggled, so I dedicated a month to training and got it right,” says Jean-Marc. “A couple of years ago I saw that someone had the title for the most nollie heelflips in 2016, which was eight in under a minute. “So I applied to Guinness and the next year I broke the record with 14 flips. Last year I applied again to beat my own record and managed 18 in 50 seconds.” The recording took place in October and this week he received his notification from Guinness. Competitive “I am also the first South African skateboarder to obtain international gold, silver and bronze medals for competitive skateboarding,” the humble skater adds. The friendly young man, who has turned his passion into a career, is now preparing for the 2020 Olympic Games and hopes he will be selected for the South African team. He says his success can be attributed to the support of his family and high school sweetheart, Roxanne Morris, also 28. In the near future, Jean-Marc aims to set a new record which he hopes will be unbreakable and may include jumping from one building to another on his skateboard. * Pictures in the story are by Abdul Kadir and Duncan Walker. monique.duval@inl.co.za