Cape Town – The Khayelitsha Development Forum (KDF) is aggrieved by the City of Cape Town’s lack of empathy towards the families affected by a fire that decimated an undetermined number of graves in the Khayelitsha cemetery last week. According to the City, dry grass in Burial Block E of the cemetery caught alight at approximately 10am on Monday, December 31 and staff on duty called the City’s Fire and Rescue Service to extinguish the blaze. The full extent of the damage is currently being determined and the City’s Fire and Rescue Service has been requested to undertake a full investigation in an attempt to establish the cause of the fire. The Khayelitsha Cemetery spans 31.5 hectares, according to the City’s website. KDF chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said the City had not shown the proper respect for the families of the affected graves and felt the matter had been only considered a "logistical issue". “The damage was extensive and the City has failed to consider the cultural, religious and emotional impact that this travesty has caused. "We are very upset that the community and affected families were not informed this tragedy. We know that had this been an environmental area, with wildlife affected, the required specialist assistance would have been called in and community engagement would have occurred,” he said. Tyhido said the KDF had demanded a meeting with the area manager tomorrow and they would ask for the burial register to trace the families of the graves in the damaged areas. He said the extent of the damage was difficult to determine as many of the graves had only wooden crosses and would make it difficult for the families to identify their loved one's last resting place. Mayoral Committee Member for Community Services and Health Zahid Badroodien said he had requested the identifying of the affected families and to inform them accordingly. “The progress of the investigation sits with Safety and Security. We therefore have to enquire into its progress as the investigation is not done by my directorate,” he said. Questioned why the community had not been informed about the fire, Badroodien said he was requesting feedback on that query from the City’s media team and any further action to be taken would depend on the outcome of the investigation. Anyone who would like to ascertain whether a loved one’s grave was affected can contact the Khayelitsha Horticultural Office on 021 444 9372. The media team were unable to provide feedback on the Cape Times query on the extent of the damage of the fire, if their investigation had been completed and what steps would taken by deadline.