Goso, from Intsebenziswano Secondary School, was among the learners honoured by Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer yesterday. He defied all odds to become not only the Western Cape’s best but South Africa’s best for the Grade 12 class of 2018 in Quintile 2 schools. Schäfer hosted the annual matric awards ceremony, a tradition where the province’s top achievers and schools are awarded, at Premier Helen Zille’s residence at Leeuwenhof. The awards included R10 000 and R6 000 cash prices, certificates and electronic devices such as laptops. The Western Cape top five performing matrics list was led by Justine Lara Crook Mansour from Rustenburg Girls’ High, followed by Derek George Reissenzahn from Diocesan College. Timothy John Schlesinger from Rondebosch Boys’ High clinched third place, followed by Charlotte Marion Louw from Herschel Girls’ School in fourth place. Goso clinched fifth place. For him, this was his biggest achievement in his life so far. “I’m in awe at the amount of love and support from my community and family. I overheard my youngest brother saying he wants to study hard and be celebrated like me. “I hope more stories like mine will come out of the community and other township communities,” he said. Goso was awarded a R16 000 cash prize, laptop and a certificate for excellence in physical sciences, where he scored 300 out of 300 and came second countrywide in the subject. He was also placed first in the Quintile 2 schools category countrywide. Kamva attributed his achievement to the Kutlwanong Promaths programme. The programme provides extra tuition in maths and science to learners in Grades 10 to 12 at selected schools across South Africa. In Philippi, he was among the pupils chosen to join the programme. Schlesinger was placed second in maths countrywide after receiving 100% - 300 out of 300 in his final exam. “I was lucky enough to be in a great school environment with lots of support from my parents, teachers and friends. “I could confidently say matric was one of the best years of my schooling career because I didn’t experience many challenges. However I wouldn’t want to repeat it as it’s stressful.” Schäfer said she was pleased with the quality of passes despite the province seeing a drop in the pass rate in 2018. “We focus on the quality of passes and retention of as many learners as possible in the school system so that the best possible opportunities are given to our young people in the Western Cape. “I wish you the very best as you embark on a new chapter of your life. My only advice to you is that there are no secrets to success. “Work hard and learn from your mistakes, never lose your integrity, and never give up,” Schäfer said.