Cape Town – A broken femur has not stopped water activist Mina Guli from dropping her #RunningDry campaign to raise awareness about the global water crisis. Guli has appealed to the world to come together on Sunday to run 100 marathons in one day. “I will honestly be forever grateful to every single person, young or old, walker or runner, for taking time out of their lives to help raise awareness for the global water crisis that we are facing. "I have always said that I want to make saving water so famous that it’s no longer the right thing to do, but the only thing to do. That dream is now becoming a reality,” Guli said. Earlier this month, Guli had halted her challenge to run 100 marathons in 100 days around the world after doctors discovered a stress fracture to her right femur. Guli had continued the campaign, walking a further three marathons in South Africa to complete marathon #62. However, the injury has worsened. On Sunday, the #RunningDry community will attempt 100 marathons in one day - worldwide, for one reason: water. To take part, Guli said, supporters would simply run or walk a marathon, or part of a marathon, and log their distance on social media with the hashtag #RunningDry. Supporters are encouraged to share water facts, available on Guli’s website, and invite their friends to join. To date, the biggest running day has logged 1 800km for #RunningDry (42 marathons), so 4 200km in one day is an ambitious goal, but one that Guli said she felt certain the community will rise to. “There’s an African proverb that says, ‘If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together’. Well, I’ve gone about as far as I can alone. "The next 25 days of #RunningDry are all about collective action. The support I have received from around the world has been so humbling - and so inspiring. "I found out yesterday that my original injuries to my femur have become substantially worse,” Guli said. Guli had started her campaign on November 4 last year at the New York Marathon and arrived in Cape Town on December 27, where she had headed straight to Beaufort West after hearing about their dire water situation. To find out more about the #RunningDry campaign and to log your kilometres, visit Mina’s social media pages. Website: www.minaguli.com Facebook: Mina Guli Twitter: @MinaGuli Instagram: @minaguli