Cape Town – Two alleged Hanover Park gangsters accused of killing an innocent father are behind bars after the Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) swooped on them and an alleged accomplice. According to a source close to the case, the two alleged Ghetto Kidz gang members were taken in for murder just a day after Craig Cupido, 24, was gunned down in the street while walking to his girlfriend’s house. Cupido, a welder and well-known churchgoer in Hanover Park, was the victim of a retaliation shooting amid ongoing attacks between members of the Ghetto Kidz and Laughing Boys. The source says after the murder of Wagied “Daggalip” Brink, 42, a week before, one of the factions of the Laughing Boys teamed up with the Ghetto Kidz to retaliate and Cupido became a victim simply because he lives in Tiberius Court. He says the two alleged shooters, Labieq “Scarface” Kannemeyer and Vernon “Gearbox” Floris, jumped out of a white Toyota Corolla and shot Cupido several times despite knowing he was not a gangster. “Craig pleaded for his life and they still shot him. He was killed because he lives in Tiberius Court and they wanted to retaliate against the gangsters there,” the source says. The next day the AGU traced an alleged accomplice of the two, Michael Jantjies, 40, to Valhalla Park, where they found the car used in the attack and guns he had allegedly hidden. “Jantjies is also a Ghetto and was hiding the guns and car for the others. The third person involved in the murder of Craig is on the run,” adds the source. Police spokesman Captain Hein Hendricks says at 7am on Wednesday officers followed up on information relating to alleged gangsters hiding at a residence, which led to the discovery of two illegal firearms with their serial numbers filed off, 39 rounds of ammunition and a stolen motor vehicle. “The motor vehicle was taken during a house robbery in Rondebosch and later used in a murder and attempted murder registered at Philippi SAPS.” Jantjies appeared in Bishop Lavis Magistrate's Court on Friday, charged with the illegal possession of firearms and vehicle theft. Kannemeyer and Floris appeared in the Athlone Magistrate's Court for murder and attempted murder. The trio will appear in court again on Friday and they were remanded in Pollsmoor Prison. Last night, Hanover Park residents gathered in Tiberius Court and held a candlelight vigil for Craig, who will be buried this week.