The City yesterday urged residents to comment on the proposal, saying it was aimed at conserving the neighbourhood’s unique historical character. A public participation process is scheduled for Friday and comments should be submitted by February 22. Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association vice-chairperson Fowzia Achmat said they had submitted their comments motivating for the declaration of the heritage status five years ago, but nothing had come of it. Achmat said they were not happy that the process had to be started all over again, but would participate so their opinion would be considered. “We don’t want this to stall any longer and we will rally residents to get involved once again. Five years ago we went through the whole process: we submitted verbal stories, maps, we presented everything we needed to. But we will do so again,” Achmat said. All land within the City has a base zoning that determines what it can be used for and over what period the land may be developed. A Heritage Protection Overlay Zone sets additional development rules over and above the provisions of a base zoning, meaning development applications for properties within it are assessed more critically, with additional focus on the impact that the development proposal will have on the heritage value of the building and site and the area at large. Mayor Dan Plato said Bo-Kaap’s historical character was under pressure given its proximity to the central business district, its large-scale developments and traffic congestion and urban renewal. Mayoral committee member for spatial planning and environment Marian Nieuwoudt said: “As from Friday, Capetonians will have the opportunity to comment on the City’s proposal to include the Bo-Kaap area - the buildings, all vacant land and sites, and public streets - in a Heritage Protection Overlay Zone. "I’m urging residents, in particular those who own property in the Bo-Kaap, to read the guideline document so that they can understand how the proposed zoning may impact them and to submit their comments to the City.” The can be viewed online and during office hours at: – The subcouncil 16 office on the 11th floor at 44 Wale Street, or the metro office on the 5th floor there. – The Table Bay district planning office on the 2nd floor of the Media City Building on the corner of Adderley Street and Hertzog Boulevard. Objections and comments, with reasons, may be submitted before or on February 22 by emailing lums@capetown.gov.za, going to www.capetown.gov.za/haveyoursay or visiting the metro office or Table Bay district planning office.