Cape Town – Officers attached to the City of Cape Town's Metro Police Department prevented a young man from jumping off a bridge – who had had an argument with his family – and made several arrests at the weekend, including two for the theft of hubcaps in the last few days. Metro police members came to the aid of a 24-year-old man who attempted to jump off the Mew Way Bridge leading over the N2, the City said in a statement. "Officers responded to communication from a radio controller that the man was standing on the Mew Way Bridge threatening to take his own life. "He told the officers that he had an argument with his family. After some negotiating, the officers convinced the man to go home safely. "There the officers spoke to the family and during a follow-up the next day, they were told that relations were back to normal. "This time of year puts huge stress on families and relationships, which spills over into the duties of our officers who find themselves having to counsel and mediate to ensure a safe and positive outcome. I want to encourage families and friends to be on the lookout for signs that a loved one is not coping with pressure," said the City's Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security, JP Smith. During the past week, Metro Police officers arrested seven suspects for being in possession of drugs; two for being in possession of possible stolen property; one for being in possession of false documentation; and one for contravening a protection order. On Sunday, officers deployed to the Strand and Lovers Lane beach areas to ensure public safety and to clamp down on by-law offences confiscated 16 bottles of alcohol, including beer and whiskey. Seven units of alcohol were found abandoned at Strand beach, which included a 5-litre papsak. On Saturday, officers patrolling in Ravensmead and conducting crime prevention patrols arrested three men, aged 30, 36 and 46, for the possession of drugs, which included two packets of tik and one-and-a-half mandrax tablets. They were detained at Ravensmead police station. On Thursday, officers conducting crime prevention patrols in the Sea Point area received a complaint of theft from a vehicle. They responded and found two men walking with three hubcaps. "They could not give an account as to whom the hubcaps belonged to and were arrested for being in possession of suspected stolen property. They were detained at Sea Point police station," the City said. On the same day, officers patrolling in Harare area, with a focus on traffic enforcement, stopped a vehicle in Bukwayo Road to check driver and vehicle fitness. The officer noticed that the driver had a false identification document and a false driving licence and arrested the 31-year-old driver for the possession of false documentation.