The SACP in the Brian Bunting District made a donation of 26 pairs of new school shoes to pupils at Ekuthuleni Primary School in Bloekombos, as part of the Joe Slovo Right to Learn Campaign. The campaign has been active in working to ensure pupils across the country have access to quality education, and all the materials that go along with it. Principal Mary-Ann Nkahla said teachers had identified some of the most needy children to receive a pair of shoes. The school is a no-fee paying school, and enrols some of the most underprivileged children in the area, Nkahla said. Those who received the shoes had spent years wearing out their previous pairs, to the extent that their toes were exposed. Nkahla said parents could not afford to buy their children new shoes or uniforms, and they were thankful to the SACP for its donation. “Some of our pupils were wearing shoes that were in very bad shape, and some were wearing shoes other than the standard black pair. “Our teachers had identified the children who were in desperate need, many of them are orphans,” Nkahla said. Unemployment in the area is rife, Nkahla said, and if parents work, it is for a minimum wage. “Some parents buy one cabbage and it has to feed the family for a week. We are so grateful for this,” Nkahla said. SACP district secretary Siya Siswana said the party did not have a lot of resources, but conscientising the public to people’s plight and making a difference, no matter how small, was what mattered. “So many things are affecting our schools: crime, gangsterism, overcrowding, and poverty. Our different branches each do their bit in different ways. “Central to this programme is ensuring pupils have quality education,” Siswana said. According to StatsSA about 10% of Kraaifontein residents go on to receive a higher education and training, while about 32% of them have a matric. Nkahla invited the public to visit the school, and if they liked, to make a difference in the lives of the little ones. For more details contact 021 988 9678.