Cape Town – Thandolakhe Stuurman has defied the odds, passing the 2018 matric exams despite being permanently blind within minutes of starting to write his Grade 11 June exams in a Bloemfontein classroom in 2016. Stuurman enrolled at the mainstream Fairmount Senior Secondary School for sighted pupils in Grassy Park in 2017. “This is more than achieving a qualification - to me, it is a triumph over the challenges that blindness presented me as my sight failed me in a classroom three years ago.” Recalling how Stuurman came to the League of Friends of the Blind (Lofob) in Grassy Park to equip himself with survival skills after his sudden blindness, Lofob’s public relations officer Heidi Volkwijn said Stuurman complained of headaches and blurred vision while caught up in the throes of the 2016 exams. “He had experienced severe blurring as he struggled to read through the question paper and within minutes he was left in total darkness. “This experience only became worse as he had to undergo several medical examinations and was later told that his vision loss was permanent,” said Volkwijn. Stuurman was ready at the age of 17 to give up on life and dreams of completing his education and pursuing a successful career, said Volkwijn. He was then referred to Lofob, where he enrolled into a rehabilitation programme and was housed at its residential facility, where he received the skills needed to live independently. “Inspired by a blind pupil who had just completed her schooling career at Fairmount Senior Secondary School, this young man set his sight on returning to a mainstream school to re-do Grade 11 and do Grade 12,” said Volkwijn. Lofob executive director DrArmand Bam described Stuurman’s achievement as a credit to the wonderful partnership between Lofob and Fairmount Senior Secondary, that produced the second blind matriculant at the mainstream school. “The future of this country is dependent on an educated society and we are pleased that Lofob can make this contribution in the development of future leaders,” said Bam He said they were not only celebrating an achievement in education, but the courage of pupils with disabilities. It was easy for a disability to lead to them throwing in the towel and giving up on their education when they acquired it at Stuurman’s age. It was for this reason that Lofob introduced its support to a mainstream education programme and worked to ensure a quality and inclusive education for all its service recipients. Fairmount principal Terrence Klassen said Stuurman was the second blind pupil to finish matric at his school, following in the footsteps of ex-pupil Jody Oliver, who became blind and did not want to leave the school on the grounds of her disability. Klassen said it took hard work and dedication from the school management team and staff who worked hand-in-hand with Lofob to ensure the two pupils received a good quality education and the needed support.