This comes after authorities were questioned about progress in the search for a 23-year-old Johannesburg man who went missing in the surf at Table View on New Year’s Day. The man, from Duduza, was swimming with two friends he had come to visit. “Circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the 23-year-old missing man are still under investigation. This office can confirm that a decomposed body was found on the beach in Bloubergstrand earlier today. “The victim’s identity is unknown at this stage and an inquest docket has been registered. The circumstances are being investigated. “It is too soon to speculate if the two matters are related at this stage,” police spokesperson Andrè Traut said. NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon said as far as they were concerned, the 23-year-old man was still being treated as missing. Last week, authorities joined by a police helicopter conducted an extensive sea and shoreline search along the Table View coastline and further north, but there was no sign of the man. NSRI Melkbosstrand members and police divers were assisted by the City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue Dive Unit and the Big Bay surf lifeguards in the search. Meanwhile, a doctor who had been at a Plettenberg Bay beach has been praised for saving the life of a 20-year-old man on Monday afternoon. Lambinon said the man had been swimming with his family at Nature’s Valley, Groot River Mouth, when he sunk. “His cousin rescued him from the water and, while responding, we were informed that a doctor who happened to be there at the time had conducted chest compressions and the patient started breathing but remained in serious condition,”he said. The doctor continued to assist with medical treatment until NSRI and Med-Life paramedics arrived and the 23-year-old was stabilised before being transported to a hospital in George. Lambinon said the man remained in a serious but stable condition. Yesterday, a bystander was hailed for saving the life of an 8-year-old boy at Lagoon Beach near Milnerton. ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said paramedics had found bystanders caring for an 8-year-old boy. “They explained that he and a friend were playing in the lagoon when the boy went under the water. One of the bystanders managed to rescue him and another bystander performed CPR. “By the time paramedics arrived on the scene, the boy showed positive vital signs. “They continued to stabilise him and later rushed him to the Red Cross Children’s Hospital for further medical care,” said Vermaak.