Cape Town – The cost of fighting a number of fires in the Overstrand Municipality this season is estimated at nearly R9.5 million. The mayor of the municipality, Dudley Coetzee, confirmed this in a special council meeting in Hermanus. The Overstrand municipality had to approve the "unforeseen and unavoidable expenditure", which was not provided for in the 2018/2019 budget, News24 reported. "The fire season for the period to date proved to be extreme, posing a serious financial challenge for the municipality, for our own staff for overtime payment, for vehicle fuel costs, as well as for external resources obtained to ensure that the municipality had the necessary capacity to deal with these abnormal circumstances," Coetzee told the council. This was due to, among others, the fire started near Betty's Bay on New Year's Day at the beginning of the month, which spread to surrounding areas and as far as the Kogel Bay Nature Reserve; the one in Masakhane, which spread rapidly to Franskraal and the Karwyderskraal area, affecting several communities, including Camp Hill and the Hemel-en-Aarde Valley. Coetzee said the cost of bringing in external firefighting services was R3.5 million, the SABC reported. To replace a fire engine destroyed in the Betty's Bay fire will cost nearly R2.5 million. Fuel costs for December and January amount to nearly R500 000 and overtime stands at nearly R2 million. To replace damaged water services' infrastructure such as water meters, pumps and fire hydrants, Coetzee said, is another R1 million. He said the exact details of the costs would be finalised as soon as possible. Meanwhile, judgment in the bail application of the alleged arsonist of the Betty's Bay fire has been postponed in the Caledon Magistrate's Court to next Friday. Sheldon April is accused of igniting the fire in a nature reserve on New Year's Day by setting off a flare. A total of 41 houses in Betty's Bay were destroyed and 28 damaged. April faces charges under the Natural Environment Act and the Veld and Forest Fires' Act, which carry heavy fines and imprisonment. April testified on Wednesday that he was not in the area when the fire started, but the National Prosecuting Authority says their key witness saw him firing a flare twice. Cape Times