Cape Town – Some Cape Flats residents didn't take kindly to Police Minister Bheki Cele and his "condolences", as a resident put it, while their demands are not being met. In the wake of three murders in Bishop Lavis over the weekend, Cele visited the area on Tuesday to “see for himself” what is happening before a community meeting in Bonteheuwel on Tuesday. What especially outraged residents is that he "visited and sympathised with the family of a suspected gang leader". During a walkabout in the policing precinct, Cele also visited the home of a man who was shot and killed on Sunday morning, who is alleged to have been affiliated to gangsters in Bonteheuwel. Faried Thesen, 56, was shot in his yard on Sunday morning just before 7am, said his wife, Jasmine. Cele said he went to the home of Thesen to look at the crime scene. "You visited the family of the enemy of Bonteheuwel. He was one of the people who placed guns in our youth's hands and instructed them to go and shoot," Nadia Mayman, of the Joint Peace Forum, told Cele at the meeting, News24 reported. "But the minister saw it appropriate to go and give his condolences at his house, to his family. Why? They disrespect us time and time again." Cele countered that he was at the crime scene and it was "not to visit the alleged gangster". "It doesn't matter who is killed, or how I or a community feels about the person. The police have the responsibility to arrest, no matter who (the victim is)." Parents voiced concerns about the area not having its own police station and of having insufficient or incompetent police officers to tend to their complaints. Abdul Karriem Matthews, of the Total Shutdown Movement, said: “We have demanded a police station in Bonteheuwel but nothing has happened. "We also asked for a Tactical Response Team for Bishop Lavis but nothing has come of it yet. Policing remains reactive instead of proactive." DA councillor in Bonteheuwel Angus McKenzie said Cele's visit was an exercise in "pouring honey on all our lips" and was akin to an "ANC rally" ahead of the elections.