Spokesperson for the clinic Marcelle du Plessis said while many enjoyed the festive season and New Year, the animal clinic was placed under severe pressure. “We always have an influx of surrendered pets during this time, but 2018 was the worst we’ve ever experienced.” The NPO animal clinic provides veterinary care to Khayelitsha community pets and treats up to 700 animals a month through consultations, hospitalisation, surgery, mobile clinics and an animal ambulance. “As we are a veterinary clinic, we are not specifically geared towards housing homeless pets and adoptions. However, we will never turn a pet in need away, and as a result our initial small adoptions programme has needed much more attention. “Mdzananda does not have a dedicated person managing adoptions, so we share the load of intake, photographing, promoting and looking for fosters, processing adoptions and managing inquiries among the three staff in the office.” They had 25 dogs and 32 cats on Christmas Eve. Since then, many more pets have streamed through their doors. Head veterinarian Dr Brian Bergman said: “On New Year’s Day, a dog was brought to us with a wounded mouth. His owners explained that the dog generally plays ‘fetch’ with the children, and when the children threw firecrackers for festivities, the dog chased the crackers, one exploding in his mouth.” He added that the owners were devastated and very concerned for their pet. “We were able to treat him in our hospital and he returned home once he had healed. The owners were also educated about the dangers of fireworks for animals and their children.” He said another sad case was one of a woman who brought her dog to the clinic as children had thrown firecrackers at it. She brought it in because she had no fence and feared for her dog’s safety, he added. “She was devastated when I met her, tears pouring down her cheeks. She clearly loved her dog very much but felt she had no choice but to hand him over to protect him.” Bregman said the story resulted in the Fence Project, where staff offered to build a fence around the woman’s yard with wooden pallets so the dog would be able to return home. “She was overjoyed and so grateful. So far we have measured the property and will in due course start putting up the pellet fences.” The clinic is currently under a lot of strain and donations are welcome. If you would like to donate, contact Mdzananda Animal Clinic: info@mdzananda.co.za or 082 251 0554/021 367 6001.