The man was on his way to work when he was shot and killed by assailants at about 5.20am, said police spokesperson Hein Hendricks. “(We) can confirm that a 59-year-old man was shot and killed in Merrydale Avenue. The deceased was on his way to work when approached by unknown assailants who tried to rob him. A struggle ensued between the suspects and the deceased,” said Hendricks. The man was shot in the chest, stomach and head. “An off-duty police official intervened and the suspects fled the scene. A firearm and three cartridges were recovered with a case of murder registered for investigation,” he said. Police said the suspect was caught in the afternoon and would appear in the Mitchells Plain Magistrate’s Court once charged. Lentegeur community policing forum spokesperson Byron de Villiers said: “We have neighbourhood watch patrols that time of the morning but what makes it more difficult is that the criminals know when there is a shift change with police. “These incidents spike between 5am and 6am when there is less visibility. “We are meeting the station commander to address these issues because our residents are more vulnerable during this time. “It is very unfortunate that in this specific incident there was a loss of life,” De Villiers said. He said robbery incidents were not isolated but the shooting of victims was not a common occurrence. “This is a hot-spot area for robberies as it is along a very busy taxi route. “We urge residents and pedestrians to remain alert and we continue saying rather save your life than put up a fight against armed criminals,” he said. Meanwhile, police were still searching for the suspect behind the killing of an elderly couple, Riedwaan and Rugaya Adinall. The couple, both aged 82, was found dead in their Ottery home on Sunday afternoon after family had trouble trying to get hold of them. It was suspected that they had been strangled to death. However, police said they were awaiting autopsy results to confirm the cause of death. Spokesperson Andrè Traut said the investigation into the matter was still ongoing. The couple was laid to rest on Monday evening in accordance with Muslim rites. Anyone with information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 086 001 0111 or SMS Crime Line on 32111.