Cape Town –  The fact that there wasn't much wind ensured that a flare-up on Signal Hill Road could be quickly contained by firefighters on Monday afternoon. "We just had a flare-up now on Signal Hill Road, between the kramat (shrine) and the scout camp," Philip Prins, spokesperson for the Table Mountain National Park, told News24. "There were two helicopters and ground crews on the scene. The fire is contained now again. Luckily, there is not much wind." City of Cape Town fire spokesperson Theo Layne said flare-ups of "different severity" were to be expected throughout the day, which is why aside from their crews on the ground in place, they also had a water-bombing aerial team. Firefighters have worked since Sunday night to put out the main blaze that torched about 160 hectares of land between Signal Hill and Lion's Head, which comprises mainly fynbos. While families living in Sea Point evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill, Styan said there wasn’t much damage to property as the bulk of the fire was in the veld area. A person who slept on the mountain sustained burns on 45 percent of his body as a result of the blaze. Meanwhile, firefighting efforts are still continuing at the Van der Stel Pass near Grabouw. The fire in Grabouw has been "60-80% contained", Western Cape Minister of Local Government and Environmental Affairs spokesperson James-Brent Styan said. "This means they aren't fully under control, but teams will be on site the whole day." Most of the fire that has been raging at Bot River in the Overberg has been contained. The fire caused damage to about 10 400 hectares of vegetation, including plant species, vineyards and orchards. One person has been injured after a tractor he was on caught alight. Seven firefighting teams and three helicopters are battling the blaze. Overberg fire chief Reinard Geldenhuys said although 80 percent of the fire is contained, they are concerned about the possibility of flare-ups due to dry and humid conditions, the SABC reported. The fire started last week Thursday. Authorities believe it was started deliberately. Cape Times 