The women, who received free tickets to the match from the Bo-Kaap Civic Association, put up a few posters along the stadium wall with statements about declaring Bo-Kaap a heritage site. Masnoona Singlee said security officers at the outside gate of the stadium allowed them to enter the stadium with the posters. “We realise we should have asked permission to display the posters, but the outside security let us in and we automatically thought it is okay,” said Singlee. Once they were in their seats with the posters displayed along the stadium wall, a security officer and Public Order Policing unit members told them to remove the posters. “We all complied with what the officers said, and I don’t know how it escalated to us being forcibly removed from the stadium.”   Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said he was aware of - but had not been present at - the incident, and could not comment because it involved SAPS staff. Police did not respond to emails requesting comment. Meanwhile, the court battle to preserve one of Cape Town’s iconic areas has escalated. The Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association (BKCRA) filed their answering affidavit in the case against the Bo-Kaap community after the second application by developers Blok to interdict the Bo-Kaap community. “The residents of the Bo-Kaap community were unaware of the second interdict, which was only served at the Blok development at 40 Lion Street - a distance from the central hub of Bo-Kaap... and out of sight for an overwhelming majority of the residents who are adversely affected.” The document goes on to say the application excluded those cited in the first application, such as the BKCRA and the Bo-Kaap Youth Movement. And at the time of approaching the court, Norton Rose Fulbright attorneys failed to inform the judge that Blok had not complied with the judge’s first order that Blok should engage with the SA Human Rights Commission for the court-instructed mediation process. “The Bo-Kaap community believes the omission of its official representative organisation, the BKCRA, as a respondent in the second interdict, and the inadequate service process, were purposely done to mislead the judge and create the impression that only a small group of persons were resisting the Blok development,” papers said. sukaina.ishmail@inl.co.za Cape Argus