Cape Town – An all-female soccer team from Stellenzicht Secondary School in Stellenbosch have only one goal in sight: making their dream a reality to participate in the Gothia World Youth Cup in Sweden this year. Standing in the way of the SSS Falcons Ladies, all aged between 14 and 17, is funding to show off their football skills on a world stage. Head coach Shaun Daniels said he wants his dream team to live this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity at the Gothia World Youth Cup in Gothenburg, Sweden in July. “Most of these girls come from single-parent homes who make a living from working on farms in the Stellenbosch area. We decided to explore the possibility of going to the Gothia Youth World Cup after going up against a rival team and winning. “After playing against them, we joked about entering the Gothia Youth World Cup, and when I did some research about it... shortly thereafter we received an invitation to participate,” Daniels said. His team would make history for their school if they made it to the tournament, he said. “These are girls who come from poverty-stricken homes but have a passion for soccer and now have the opportunity to be one of 1700 teams participating globally. "A historic moment awaits the SSS Falcons as they will be the second female team of South Africa since the mid-1990s to play in the Gothia Cup. “This means that we will be the first female team of the Western Cape to participate in the tournament and also the first female team in the new millennium,” Daniels said. Daniels said his team “wants to bring back hope to pupils”. “Our team wants to be a beacon of light to show that anything is possible, and they have a mammoth task ahead of them to do this. “The majority of our team do not even know what it is to travel. A recent visit to Cape Town Stadium for a soccer match was their first time so far from home,” Daniels said. The Stellenzicht girls team, who have to borrow their soccer gear from their under-15 boys’ soccer team and share soccer boots, each need to raise R22 000 to make their dream a reality. Donations to the team can be made to the school, with reference name SZ_GC2019. Bank: Nedbank. Account number: 14 98 05 3 77 7. Cheque (current) account. Cape Times