Cape Town – Anti-apartheid advocate Michael Donen SC is to participate in a trial before the International Criminal Court (ICC) in Kampala, Uganda. Donen said his role was to ascertain if the rights of a witness for the defence were protected in a matter regarding a suspect linked to the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA). “My role is not to address the court but observe proceedings, as the witness was a former LRA child soldier who was kidnapped by the rebel group. "I received a briefing and will be flying out (today) as the proceedings will be done over the next two weeks,” he said. The ICC sits in the Hague in the Netherlands and the witness will give testimony via video feed. “The accused in the matter is Dominic Ongwen, who was a high-ranking member and will be trialled under crimes against humanity. I am advising the witness of his rights and where he may be protected against ICC laws, but could still incriminate himself in Ugandan laws,” he said. Ongwen, 43, faces 70 charges arising from LRA activities in northern Uganda in the early 2000s. Donen said he would receive notification just before the witness was ready to testify, for security reasons, and then would provide advice and inform the witness where they might incriminate themselves according to their own country’s law, even if they were protected against prosecution by the ICC on agreement. The LRA, a guerrilla group, was led by Joseph Kony. It terrorised northern Uganda for almost two decades, killing 100000 and displacing 1.7million, with the stated intention of imposing rule based on the Ten Commandments. According to reports, their members kidnapped tens of thousands of children, turning them into killers who carried out rapes, tortures and massacres, before the group was driven out of the country in 2006. Last year Uganda and the US ended a six-year hunt for Kony, who is still at large, but his force was reported to have shrunk. Both governments no longer consider the LRA to be a threat. Donen said his role would be similar to that which he provided to a witness in the ICC trial of Kenyan Deputy President William Ruto in Nairobi in 2013. “The difference between these trials was that in the previous instance, that witness was testifying for the prosecution. The complexity comes in that while such a witness can be protected by an agreement with the prosecution to ensure they themselves are not prosecuted according to ICC laws, they may, during their testimony, be indicted by about 20 Kenyan laws,” he said. Donen’s column, Beautiful Truths, in the Cape Times on Monday addresses the real issues raised by the Clifton events.