This after she had to halt her goal to run 100 marathons in 100 days around the world to raise awareness about the global water crisis following an injury. After doctors discovered a stress fracture to her right femur earlier this month, Guli continued the campaign, walking a further three marathons in South Africa to complete marathon #62. But the marathon ended in tears with Guli no longer able to put any weight on her right leg. The 48-year-old now has multiple stress fractures in her right femur. “I have broken the largest bone in my body trying to complete my #RunningDry campaign,” said a tearful Guli. #RunningDry launched at the New York City Marathon on November 4, 2018. Since then Guli has run a marathon a day in England, France, Italy, Uzbekistan and the Aral Sea, India, Hong Kong, China, Dubai, Jordan, Israel and South Africa. After leaving South Africa, Mina will make her way to Australia, Chile, Bolivia, Peru and Mexico, before she completes the expedition by running across the US to finish her 100th marathon in New York on February 11. Guli’s team stepped in to complete marathon #63 on January 5 in Cape Town, with podiatrist Brock Healy, physiotherapist Elena Hobson, photographer Kelvin Trautman and cinematographer Jared Paisley each taking turns running parts of the 42.2km. Guli has vowed that she will lace up her shoes again to finish the #RunningDry campaign in the allotted 100 days. Guli’s friends, family and supporters have rallied around her to “donate” their kilometres to Mina in order for #RunningDry to continue. On Sunday, Guli’s followers around the world collectively completed a distance of three marathons, with one supporter - Bruno Sanchez-Andrade Nuno - completing a full marathon, while others donated shorter distances. For each day that Guli recovers, 42.2km needs to be logged by the global community of water savers. Those interested in running and walking as part of the #RunningDry campaign are asked to log their kilometres and share them to Mina’s social media accounts, using #RunningDry. “I would happily be your proxy for one of more of these marathons to avoid having you endure a permanent injury,” Lucille Renwick said. “Did 10km for you today @MinaGuli - if three more join me we should reach your goal for today, right? Hang in there superwoman,” Hilde Vestad said.