This is according to Local Government MEC Anton Bredell, who said: “We’ve faced some extreme situations over the past few months, including the massive fires in the George area late last year. "That was followed by the Wupperthal disaster and more recently the ongoing fires in the Overberg district. In addition, we’ve been dealing with an ongoing drought in the Karoo. "The successes we’ve had to date can only be laid at the door of the capacity we’ve built up in the Western Cape over the past 10 years.” Some of the recent ongoing interventions the province has initiated include the construction of a bulk pipeline between the Zoutkloof Spring and the main reservoir, as well as the equipping and electricity connection of two boreholes to the Zoutkloof line in Laingsburg. “The situation in the Karoo remains serious, but we want to reiterate that to date no town has run out of drinking water. Over the past weekend there was a statement circulating stating that Kannaland Municipality had run out of water. This is incorrect. "There was a short temporary technical challenge due to maintenance that had to be done on the town’s water treatment plant. That work was completed by Saturday evening,” Bredell said. The average dam level in the Western Cape is 51% (2018: 26.5%) while dams that supply the City with water have an average level of 62.6% (2018: 28.3%). The City said that although dam levels had been declining due to the hot and windy weather, water consumption over the past month had remained on the conservative side, which was helping Cape Town through the drought recovery period by reducing the impact on dams. The City said the average water usage, which has remained under 600 million litres of collective usage per day for the period (the Level 3 restrictions stipulate collective usage of 650 million litres per day), was probably due to the water-wise behavioural shifts that occurred during the drought crisis period and to the closure of some businesses and industry over the festive season. Mayoral committee member for Water and Waste Services, Xanthea Limberg, said: “Restrictions remain on a fairly strict drought recovery level as a precaution to deal with rainfall uncertainty in 2019 and 2020. "We encourage Cape Town’s water ambassadors to maintain their water-wise approach during the drought recovery phase and as the metro moves towards becoming a more water-sensitive city in the near future. "We see 2019 as a recovery year after having successfully emerged from the severe and unprecedented drought. “Based on our own assessment, we will continue to follow a conservative approach in light of rainfall uncertainty over the coming two years," she added.