Most of these cases have coincided with the fledgling stages of the endemic Cape Vulture (Gyps coprotheres) and African White-backed (Gyps africanus) vulture species. In December, 23 vultures were brought into VulPro for treatment for either dehydration, starvation and injuries caused by calcium deficiency. Since then, 13 birds had been collected within just six days, indicating a huge disaster looming, VulPro said. A large percentage of these birds are young fledglings that have either left their nest too early or have not had sufficient calcium in their diet and this - together with the extreme heat, lack of available water and sufficient food - is taking a toll on both species. VulPro founder and manager Kerri Wolter said for the rescue team, it had been physically exhausting and emotionally draining requiring long hours on the roads to fetch grounded birds and many hours treating, rehydrating and feeding them 24 hours a day. “Some have come in with broken bones, dislocated joints, bent bones which is a sure sign of calcium deficiency. Some we have sadly not been able to pull through. This too has stretched our manpower resources, however, we have a responsibility internationally to safeguard African vultures,” Wolter said. Cape Vultures are classified as globally endangered with fewer than 4 200 breeding pairs left, and the African White-backed vulture has now been classified as critically endangered (IUCN Red List of Threatened Species IUCN 2018-2). These vultures are typically slow breeding, reaching maturity between five and seven years and laying one egg a year. Fledglings leave the nest towards the end of November. While most of South Africa has been experiencing extreme above-normal temperatures for the first half of summer, together with the continued drought in many parts of the country, environmental conditions have been beyond the norm for the fledglings. Many of these birds are being found in areas far out of their range, often in urban areas, extremely dehydrated and more than likely to have been without food for up to 10 days, VulPro said. A lack of water and food is the prime cause for this “environmental collapse” of the vulture populations. Visit http://www.vulpro.com/ for more information.