Cape Town – A wildfire which has swept through the Overstrand region for the past nine days has not only damaged vegetation but led to 10 antelope being euthanised. Working on Fire (WoF) said the animals sustained injuries trying to escape the wildfire which started near Betty’s Bay and spread to Kogel Bay. It added that at least 8 270 hectares of vegetation have caught fire so far, while the fire has now spread from the mountain slopes above Kogel Bay to the Steenbras catchment area, but poses no threat to property. “It is with great sadness to report that 10 antelope had to be euthanised due to injuries sustained trying to escape this wildfire,” WoF said. “Traffic officials are stopping and, where possible, diverting traffic at the R44 turn-off towards Kleinmond. This is to divert cars intending to travel through to Gordon's Bay. But motorists still have access to Kleinmond and Betty’s Bay on the R44. “Also note that all our fighters working on the lines are looked after as per each one's organisational standards. No firefighter or support staff will be deployed or gets deployed without the minimum required rest period and nutrition,” WoF said. A 34-year-old man has appeared in court for contravention of the Nature Conservation Act and will appear again on Monday for a bail application. A R5 000 reward was offered for information leading to the arrest of a suspect who discharged a flare in the Kogel Bay Nature Reserve during the early hours of New Year's Day. Since the start of last month close to 300 WoF firefighters and aircraft assisted multiple partners, including the Southern Cape FPA, Greater Cederberg and Overberg FPA, Cape Nature and South African National Parks, in suppressing 24 fires limiting the area’s burnt to 16 937 hectares. “Our aerial resources consisting of 11 spotter planes, 8 Huey helicopters and 4 AT 802 fixed-wing air tractor bombers flew approximately 67 hours at multiple fires. "As the Betty’s Bay fire continues in its 8th day, more than 150 WoF firefighters, a spotter plane and three Huey helicopters have kept busy this past week assisting the Unified Command in combating the fires in the Overstrand/Overberg Region,” WoF said. At the same time, in Wupperthal in the Cederberg, the Muslim Judicial Council met Reverend Godfrey Cunningham, president of the Moravian Church in Southern Africa, and committed to assisting the fire disaster victims. Social workers and clergy arrived in Wupperthal this week to support victims of the fire that left about 200 people homeless. Demolition work on historical buildings has also started. “The Moravian Church in Southern Africa is appreciative of the pledge by the Muslim faith community, together with many other religious denominations in the country, in the call to aid the Wupperthal fire victims following the devastating disaster that occurred on Sunday, 30 December 2018,” the church said on Wednesday.