Cape Town – The battle against vandalism and theft at community facilities continues following various incidents since November last year. The City said on Wednesday it's doing its best to protect assets, but communities are urged to take ownership of the facilities to assist in protecting them from vandalism Just a few weeks into the new year and already several facilities have been targeted by criminal elements in the community, disrupting service delivery but also requiring repairs with funds that could have been spent elsewhere. According to Mayor Dan Plato, facilities within the Community Services and Health Directorate are particularly vulnerable. These include libraries, clinics, sports complexes, community centres and parks. “Looking after our facilities requires the support and collaboration of all community members. I want to encourage communities to take ownership of these facilities and assist us in our fight to protect these assets. “We cannot allow the vandalism and destruction of City property, and ultimately community assets, to continue. It is a waste of resources, as money that could be used for housing or sanitation has to be used to repair assets,” Plato said. Some of the incidents reported in recent months include a power outage at the Bishop Lavis library on January 4 as a result of vandalism of a nearby electricity substation, which meant staff were unable to use their telephones or computers and patrons couldn’t use the library. Burglars also tried to access the library during the power outage but were interrupted by security guards, who alerted law enforcement. In other incidents, damage to wooden structures, trees and rubber matting at the Nomzamo Smart Park on January 7 as a result of a fire was also reported. During the December holidays, the Delft Library suffered a number of broken windows, while a section of the fence was removed and a door at the reference section was vandalised. Chillers on the roof of the Bellville Library were also vandalised and the copper pipes stolen twice, with the second incident occurring in November last year. “City facilities are the continuous targets of wanton criminal acts and vandalism and the City spends millions annually to repair and replace these assets. "Facilities are not only incapacitated for use but the loss and damage deprive the very communities they serve,” Plato said. Mayco member for  Community Services and Health Zahid Badroodien said: “The reality is that we have a social problem which manifests itself as crime and vandalism on easy targets such as cemeteries and recreation facilities.”