Cape Town - A trap set with rocks on the N2 led to two metro police officers and a motorist being shot early this morning. Police had received a call at 2am that a vehicle had broken down on the N2 incoming close to Borchards Quarry, Metro police chief Wayne le Roux said. On the scene, the officers were approached by four people who said a motorist had been injured. Le Roux told CapeTalk: "We discovered on our cameras that these four people who had pretended to assist this person had actually injured him and robbed him at the scene and then shot officers." "So they came under false pretenses to help a person who had broken down due to rocks being placed on the roadway... They were obviously there to rob this innocent person." Mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith said a motorist had driven over the rocks and stopped on the side of the road to attend to a burst tyre. "While doing so, another vehicle pulled over and one of the occupants shot the motorist," Smith said. When they arrived on the scene, the female officer was wounded in the left leg and her colleague, both 44 years old, was shot in the upper leg and groin by a suspect, Smith said. Smith said the suspect fled with a firearm belonging to one of the officers, a radio and some of their personal belongings. The City of Cape Town is offering a reward of R50 000 for any information on the whereabouts of the suspects behind the shooting. The officers have been admitted to hospital and will be provided with trauma counselling and support through the City's Employee Assistance Programme. Smith said there were no details about the motorist's condition at this stage. "The City of Cape Town condemns this callous attack and we will work very closely with the South African Police Service to ensure that those responsible are brought to book," he said. Anyone with information can contact the SAPS or the City’s Public Emergency Communication Centre on 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline. Cape Times 