Cape Town - While the Democratic Alliance (DA) has found its Western Cape premier candidate in Community Safety MEC, Alan Winde, it has been revealed that former DA member and former City of Cape Town Mayor, Patricia de Lille will now too be campaigning to be premier. De Lille and Winde, will be running for premier alongside former Cape Town mayor and Western Cape premier Peter Marais, who announced himself as the Western Cape premier candidate for the Freedom Front Plus. The ANC has yet to announce their premier and mayor candidates. De Lille's party, GOOD, was launched on 2 December 2018, is currently about 8 weeks old.     Western Cape Premier Candidate and GOOD Leader, Patricia De Lille, gives residents of the province the opportunity to elect a leader with the experience, passion and energy to unite our province, grow its economy, and care for our most vulnerable. #FIXSA pic.twitter.com/ovL15E3V4V Last week, the party launched its manifesto, “The GOOD Plan to Fix South Africa (#FIXSA)”. "GOOD is committed to rekindling the hopes and dreams of a South Africa that is prosperous, just and fair. GOOD leaders, and people, have the courage and the leadership to do what it takes," said Brett Herron, GOOD Secretary-General. "Over the past two weeks, GOOD has been assessing nominees for our premier candidates. "Provincial Coordinating Committees, in each province, were requested to submit nominations to the national leadership. We have finalised the selection process for four of the provinces: Western Cape, Northern Cape, Gauteng and North West. In the case of the Western Cape the Provincial Coordinating Committee submitted one, unanimous, nomination," Herron said. "Nine nominees went through a competitive selection process that included an assessment tool specially designed for GOOD by an independent industrial psychologist." Herron said that the party's National Leadership Committee considered the outcome of this process on Friday evening and has revealed the Premier Candidates for their respective provinces.    